Accessibility information (#1296)
EuroPython/website: src/content/pages/accessibility.mdx

---
title: Accessibility at EuroPython
subtitle:
  Information about Accessibility at EuroPython as an attendee with maps of
  venues, childcare and other accessibility information.
---

# Accessibility at EuroPython

EuroPython strives to be welcoming, accessible and inclusive for all our
guests attending the conference.
If you have suggestions to improve accessibility, please let us know by contacting us at
[helpdesk@europython.eu](mailto:helpdesk@europython.eu).

## General

> For enquiries, visit our helpdesk at registration or look for volunteers wearing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For enquiries, visit our Info Desk at registration or look for volunteers wearing
```
consistency with the neurodiversity bag section, and also with actual labelling.

> For enquiries, visit our helpdesk at registration or look for volunteers wearing

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking here maybe we could also provide an online way just in case someone needs help and they cannot reach out to volunteers (e.g. they are in a far away room) or their accessibility needs make it hard to go to the helpdesk.

Potentially they could reachout to servicedesk or maybe they could just ping somewhere in discord and then someone can reach out to them in private. Just ideas.

Author: Added a sentence regarding discord. Just not sure if we are fast enough here. And there is no direct ping.

> Yellow conference t-shirt when enquiring about accessibility which includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
yellow conference t-shirt when enquiring about accessibility which includes:
```

> Yellow conference t-shirt when enquiring about accessibility which includes:

Reviewer: The wording sounds like an exhaustive list. Let's try to encourage people to ask any questions they might have. If you want to use bullets, we can say 
`You’re very welcome to ask about any accessibility needs. These may include, for example:`

Without bullets, 
`You're very welcome to ask about any accessibility needs, such as access to lifts, accessible toilets, or dietary requirements, but these are just examples.`

Reviewer: @cybit , not sure if this was missed.

Author: Missed. Rewrote the whole paragraph now.

- Lifts
- Accessible toilet facilities
- Dietary requirements

> At main talk rooms, enquire with the session chair before the talks about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the main talk rooms, feel free to speak to the volunteer coordinating the session if you’d like support with things like:
```
Folks are not required to know what a session chair is :)

designated seating, maintaining clear pathways, or other needs.

### Dietary Requirements

We aim to meet all dietary requirements specified during ticket registration.

Menus and related dietary information will be displayed each day to accommodate your
food restrictions. We will also have a dietary station at the bar area on the

> second floor foyer. - If you are coeliac, or need to avoid any particular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Menus and related dietary information will be displayed each day to help you identify 
suitable options. We will also have a dedicated dietary station at the bar area on the
second-floor foyer. If you are coeliac, or need to avoid any particular

allergen, please come to the dietary station for food.

### Neurodiversity bag

We understand that some conference participants can feel overwhelmed by large crowds. To help with this, we've prepared a bag full of squishy and plushy items for you to relax during the demanding conference days.
- Location: The bag is placed at the Info Desk in the Registration area.

- Contents: The bag contains various items, including fidget toys, squishy toys, and pop-it toys.
- Usage: Feel free to play and stim with anything you like for as long as you need. We kindly ask that you bring the items back so others can enjoy them as well.

### Childcare

> Free childminding is available for attendees during the main conference (Mo-Fr), you can request for this free

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Free childminding is available for attendees during the main conference (Monday-Friday). You can request for this free
```

onsite service when you register your
[ticket](https://ep2025.europython.eu/tickets). If you have questions, please

> contact support@europython.eu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contact helpdesk@europython.eu.
```
Let's just use the same email everywhere to avoid any confusion, even though both go to the same place.

- Childcare is on the **2nd floor** at **South Room 247 + 248**.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For full details, please visit the [childcare page](/childcare).

```
Maybe double check if you need an extra line before or after :)

> ## Conference venue (Mo–Fr)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conference venue (Monday–Friday)
```

The Prague Congress Centre (PCC) is the main venue for EuroPython 2025.

> ### Parking at The PCC

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Parking at the PCC
```

![PCC parking map](./images/accessibility-parking-map.png)

> Disabled parking is available at The PCC carpark, please find this information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Disabled parking is available at the PCC car park, please find this information
```

> at https://www.praguecc.cz/en/parking-in-pcc.

Reviewer 3: This page is 404

Reviewer: Should be https://www.praguecc.cz/en/parking-at-pcc

Author: I had a working page and assumed the one from last year was still ok. Fixed it now.

> at https://www.praguecc.cz/en/parking-in-pcc.

Author: ```suggestion
at https://www.praguecc.cz/en/parking-at-pcc .
```

### Inside The PCC

- The PCC is accessible for wheelchair users.
- Accessible toilet facilities are available.

#### Lift location

> Info:
> If possible please use the stairs or escalators to access the first and second floors of the PCC.

> > The escalators are located to the right after you enter the PCC through Entrance 5 and will bring you straight to the reception area on the first floor.

Reviewer: I suggest changing it to this: 
`<Note>Escalators are located to the **right** after you enter the PCC through **Entrance 5**, and will bring you straight to the registration area on the first floor.`

1. Let's call it registration area throughout to be consistent, so people don't wonder if there are two areas. 

2. I also think the > styling looks very strange with the quotes. So suggested <Note>. Feel free to ignore if you don't like it. If you use it, remember to close the tag at the end.

> > Stairs are located to the left after you enter the PCC through Entrance 5 and will be able to see the reception area once you reach the first floor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Stairs are located to the left after you enter the PCC through Entrance 5 and you will be able to see the reception area once you reach the first floor.
```

Reviewer: Could we do this? 
`Stairs are located to the **left** after you enter the PCC through **Entrance 5**. You will be able to see the registration area once you reach the first floor.`

basically, break long sentences and keep terms consistent.

If you need to use the lifts:

> The lifts in the PCC are a bit hidden and not very well signposted. We would recommend you to contact us via helpdesk@europython.eu or on discord if you need help finding them. We will be happy to pick you up and show you the way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The lifts in the PCC are a bit hidden and not very well signposted. We would recommend you to contact us via helpdesk@europython.eu or on Discord if you need help finding them. We will be happy to pick you up and show you the way.
```

Reviewer: Could we do `We recommend contacting us`, to make it shorter and easier to read? :)

Reviewer: @cybit, in case you missed, I suggest replacing `We would recommend you to contact us` with `We recommend contacting us`

Reviewer: I'll do a fresh comment instead because this is too hidden (my bad)

Reviewer 2: Also related to a comment above. I'm thinking it might be difficult for someone to reach out to a public channel for such needs. Do we have in mind a process that someone can use discord (e.g say "@helpdesk") and then a moderator can reach out to them, so their communication remains private?

If you want to get there on your own, here are the instructions:

> * Enter the PCC through **Entrance Number 5**.

Reviewer: Can we make this a numbered list instead? Easier to track which step I am in the side quest.

> * After entering, go straight past the escalators/stairs, past the lady through the first set of inner doors.

Reviewer 3: "lady" seems like a typo :)

Reviewer: I think Cyril might mean the staff member from the PCC... But let's try to make this a bit less wordy. My suggestion, though I might be wrong because spacial info is not my strong suit. 
```
2. Continue straight ahead, passing the escalators and stairs.
3. Walk past the staff member and through the first set of inner doors.
```
If they the escalators and the "lady" are very close, we can merge these two steps. If they are not, might be better as separate. 

But I also do not know what "inner doors" are. But maybe others do?

Author: It is a lady sitting there. But I do take anything that conveys that there is a desk with a person that seems to be of the female phenotype  sitting behind.  She will most likely not speak english though.

> * On your left you will set doors hidden in the wall. Go through these doors, and you will find the lifts to your left. (The area looks and is a bit like a service area, but it is the right place to go.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* On your left you will see doors hidden in the wall. Go through these doors, and you will find the lifts to your left. (The area looks and is a bit like a service area, but it is the right place to go.)
```

Reviewer: I'd do 
```
On your left you will see doors hidden in the wall. Go through them.

You will find the lifts on your left. (The area may look and is a bit like a service area, but you are in the right place.)
```

You can break them or merge them into one step. Up to you.

> * Use one of the lifts to go to the first or second floor. (Reception and tutorials are on the first floor, conference rooms and sponsors Wed-Fr are on the second floor.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Use one of the lifts to go to the first or second floor. (Reception and tutorials are on the first floor, conference rooms and sponsors Wednesday-Friday are on the second floor.)
```

Reviewer: It's a bit long for easy reading. Could we make it into bullets? 
```
Use one of the lifts to go to the first or second floor.
- First floor: Registration area and tutorials
- Second floor: Conference rooms and sponsors area (Wednesday–Friday)
```

Reviewer: @cybit , not sure if this was missed. It's ok to reject the suggestion though.

Reviewer: I'll make a new comment.

> * Exit the lift and turn right. You will see the same kind of doors as before, go through them and turn right again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Exit the lift and turn right. You will see doors similar to the ones downstairs. Go through them and turn right again.
```

> * Pass through the next set of doors, and you will  see the reception area to your left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pass through the next set of doors, and you will  see the registration area to your left.
```

This is the EuroPython entrance.

> #### Feeding your child

Reviewer: I think this section should be brought up to the general Childcare section. Because whatever venue we are at, whether we provide dedicated childcare or not, they should feel free to breast feed anywhere they want. We can just let them know that in other locations, there might not be dedicated areas?

Reviewer 2: +1

The conference venue (The Prague Congress Centre) has childcare rooms; they can be used
for you to breastfeed your child, should you prefer. Please note, there are no
restrictions on where you can breastfeed your child - you are free and welcome

> to feed your young ones at any place you feel comfortable with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to feed your young ones at any place you feel comfortable.
```

#### Rooms
##### Registration / Cloak room (1st floor)

> Registration will be located on the **1st floor**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registration will be located on the **1st floor**. When you enter the building:
```
Otherwise, it sounds like entrance 5 is on the 1st floor.

- Use **Entrance Number 5**

> - There is a staircase to the left and escalators to the right leading up to the **1st floor**. Signage will to show you the way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- There is a staircase to the left and escalators to the right leading up to the **1st floor**. Signage will show you the way.
```

> - When you reach **1st floor**, **Registration Desks** will be in front of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- When you reach the **1st floor**, **Registration Desks** will be in front of the
```

  cloakroom in the Forum Hall Foyer.

![PCC first floor plan](./images/accessibility-ground-floor-map.png)

##### Toilets

> - Accessible toilets are available on the **1st floor** and **2nd floor** in the main hallway. They are close by the stairs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Accessible toilets are available on the **1st floor** and **2nd floor** in the main hallway. They are close to the stairs.
```

- Gender-neutral toilets are available on the **1st floor**.

> - Additional toilets are on the **2nd floor** next to the entrance of the open space rooms and meeting rooms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Additional toilets are on the **2nd floor** next to the entrance of the Open Space rooms and meeting rooms.
```

##### Tutorials - Club Rooms (1st floor)

![PCC first floor plan](./images/accessibility-first-floor-map.png)

##### Talks, Quiet Rooms and Childcare (2nd floor)

![PCC second floor plan](./images/accessibility-second-floor-map.png)

##### Quiet Room (Meeting 2.2)

- If you need a quiet space to do some quiet work or just rest a bit, we got you. You can find the quiet room on

>   the **2nd floor** at **Meeting Room 2.2** (past the sponsors area to the left or the long way round using hallways past childcare).

Reviewer: Can we make the direction part a bit clearer? I cannot easily parse it. Maybe something like 
` The quiet room is on the **2nd floor** in **Meeting Room 2.2.** You can reach it by going past the sponsors area to the left, or by taking the longer route through the hallways past the childcare area.`
Still, not entirely sure whose left, but I think it is a bit clearer?

##### Low stimulation room (South room 243)

- If you feel overwhelmed and need a quiet space with no distractions, feel free to visit **South Room 243** on the **2nd floor**. To get there, look for the childcare room and continue through the hallway. It will be one of the doors to your left.
- In this room, you'll find a bag with sunglasses, eye masks, and earplugs for your convenience. Please return the sunglasses and eye masks after use. The earplugs are yours to keep.

> ## Speakers dinner (Tuesday)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Speakers' dinner (Tuesday)
```
consistent with the web page.

> The [speakers dinner](/speakers-dinner) will take at a restaurant at the Vltava riverfront.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Speakers' Dinner](/speakers-dinner) will take at [the Mánes restaurant](https://manesrestaurant.cz/en) on the Vltava riverfront.
```
If you've taken the effort  to mention it, let's just be specific.

### Access
- There is a lift to get from the pavement level down to the restaurant level.

> - The restaurant is accessible for wheelchair users and people with limited mobility. But please note that there will be a lot of people at the restaurant, so it might be a bit crowded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The restaurant is accessible for wheelchair users and people with limited mobility. But please note that the venue may get quite busy and crowded.
```

### Food
- We will provide a variety of food options, including vegetarian, vegan, and gluten-free choices. Please have a look at the [menu](/speakers-dinner#food-menu) for more details.

### Music / Noise
- The noise level at the restaurant can be high due to the amount of people. (Background music can be regulated by us.)
- The area at the terrace is quieter, but farther away from the food and drinks.

### Flashes and strobing effects

> - We will not have any flashing lights or strobing effects at the speakers dinner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We will not have any flashing lights or strobing effects at the Speakers' Dinner.
```

### Babies and children
- The restaurant is not equipped to accommodate young children and babies. (No nappies changing facilities, no high chairs, etc.)

## Social Event - Střelecký Island

> Please have a look at the special accessibility information for the [Social Event](/social-event).

Reviewer: Can we follow the same structure as the Speakers' Dinner? Maybe something like 
```
The main [Social Event](/social-event/) will take place on the Střelecký Island. 
Please have a look at the [accessibility information](/social-event/#accessibility-information) for the event. 
```

## Sprints / Unconference Venue (Sat & Sun)

> The sprints and unconference will take place at a [different venue](/venue#where-1) than the main conference.

Reviewer: Can you add something like "Accessibility information for this venue will be provided soon."?

Author: Should be done now. Please check if the text is ok.

{/*

The **Vysoká škola ekonomická v Praze - Italská budova** (Prague University of Economics and Business, Žižkov Campus) is  accessible for wheelchair users and other people with limited mobility.

### Parking

> Parking at the venue is not available to us. We recommend using public transport to get there. If you are handicapped and need parking, please contact us at  helpdesk@europython.eu and we will try to arrange parking for you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Parking at the venue is not available to us. We recommend using public transport to get there. If you are disabled and need parking, please contact us at  helpdesk@europython.eu and we will try to arrange parking for you.
```

### Entrance
The entrance to the building is on **Italská Street**.  It is wheelchair accessible via a ramp to the left of the main entrance. You do not need to use the stairs to enter the building.
### Inside the building
The building is accessible for wheelchair users and people with limited mobility. The interior is designed to accommodate various accessibility needs.

The sprints and lunch / coffee breaks will happen on the ground floor at the end of the hallway, to get there, you can use the stairs or the lift located in the middle of the building.

Unconference rooms are located on the first floor, and you can access them via the stairs or the lift located in the middle of the building.

### Childcare
Unfortunately, we will not be able to provide childcare at the sprints venue.

*/}

## Accessibility FAQ

This FAQ covers accessibility information for EuroPython. The EuroPython team
recognises that accessibility is a continuous process, both systemic and
individual.

If you have specific questions or accessibility needs not covered here, please
email us at **helpdesk@europython.eu**.

<Accordion title="Allergies" id="allergies">

> Refrain from wearing scents such as perfumes/colognes, scented lotions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refrain from wearing strong scents such as perfumes/colognes, scented lotions,
```

clothing with strong detergent scents, etc. Notify us of preventable
environmental allergies when purchasing tickets or by email.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Will there be captioning?" id="captioning">

Unfortunately we do not have captioning during EuroPython.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="What about interpreters?" id="interpreters">

  We do not plan to have interpreters at the conference unless we are notified
  by signing attendees. If you have questions, please email us.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="What about hearing aid induction loops?" id="induction-loops">

>  We do not have hearing aid induction loops at the conference. But all speakers are using microphones, and we live stream the talks (Wed-Fri) with audio, so you can listen to the talks from your own device. Unfortunately these streams do have a slight delay.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 We do not have hearing aid induction loops at the conference. But all speakers are using microphones, and we live stream the talks (Wednesday-Friday) with audio, so you can listen to the talks from your own device. Unfortunately these streams do have a slight delay.
```

</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Any suggestions/tips as a volunteer MC or Session Chair?" id="volunteer-tips">

> - Session chairs/room volunteer(s): Let folks know if there's loud, unexpected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Session chairs/room volunteers: Let folks know if there's loud, unexpected
```

>   noises, strobing/flashing visuals in speakers' presentations beforehand,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Session chairs/room volunteer(s): Let folks know in advance about any loud or unexpected
  noises, strobing/flashing visuals in speakers' presentations, or
```

Reviewer: I'd also consider dropping the Session chairs / room volunteers. Just start with "Let folks know". Because it's repetitive.

>   content & trigger warnings for any potentially sensitive material

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  content and trigger warnings for any potentially sensitive material
```

> - Volunteers to be aware if someone requires designated spaces when they enter

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Volunteers to be aware if someone requires a designated space when they enter
```

Author: Unsure if I want to change this. What about people that need multiple seats etc. Should it still be singular?

Reviewer: I'd drop "Volunteers". And just say "Be aware" etc.

Reviewer 3: "designated space" without "a", as a mass noun, fits for both singular and multiple seats plus any other arbitrary stuff.

  the room

> - Able to assist and let folks know where lifts, accessible toilet facilities,
>   childcare, and quiet rooms are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assist folks by providing directions to lifts, accessible toilet,
  childcare facilities, and quiet rooms.
```

Reviewer: This is still pending, I think.

Author: Should not be pending with the next push.

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title="Any tipps for speakers" id="speakers-tips">

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Accordion title="Any tips for speakers" id="speakers-tips">
```

- Please be aware of the accessibility needs of your audience.
  - Please use large, clear fonts in your slides.
  - Please use high contrast colours in your slides.
  - Please avoid using red-green colour combinations in your slides.
  - Please avoid using images with text in your slides
  - Some people don't react well to loud noises, flashing lights, or
     strobing effects. If you plan to use these effects, please give a warning beforehand.
- In all rooms except forum hall (the main room), try not to use the lower third of the slide
  area, as this is not visible from the back of the room.
- Please stay close to the microphone when speaking, even if you are in a small room.

</Accordion>

---

# Attributions

Language was incorporated from the following:

> - [PyConUS](https://us.pycon.org/2019/venue/accessibility/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [PyCon US](https://us.pycon.org/2019/venue/accessibility/)
```

> - [IFLA is the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [The International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions'
```

---
title: Accessibility at EuroPython
subtitle:
  Information about Accessibility at EuroPython as an attendee with maps of
  venues, childcare and other accessibility information.
---

# Accessibility at EuroPython

EuroPython strives to be welcoming, accessible and inclusive for all our
guests attending the conference.
If you have suggestions to improve accessibility, please let us know by contacting us at
[helpdesk@europython.eu](mailto:helpdesk@europython.eu).

## General

For enquiries, visit our Info Desk at registration or look for volunteers wearing

> yellow conference t-shirt when enquiring about accessibility which includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a yellow conference t-shirt when enquiring about accessibility which includes:
```

We aim to meet all dietary requirements specified during ticket registration.

Menus and related dietary information will be displayed each day to help you identify
suitable options. We will also have a dedicated dietary station at the bar area on the
second-floor foyer. If you are coeliac, or need to avoid any particular
allergen, please come to the dietary station for food.

### Neurodiversity bag

We understand that some conference participants can feel overwhelmed by large crowds. To help with this, we've prepared a bag full of squishy and plushy items for you to relax during the demanding conference days.
- Location: The bag is placed at the Info Desk in the Registration area.

- Contents: The bag contains various items, including fidget toys, squishy toys, and pop-it toys.
- Usage: Feel free to play and stim with anything you like for as long as you need. We kindly ask that you bring the items back so others can enjoy them as well.

### Childcare

Free childminding is available for attendees during the main conference (Monday-Friday). You can request this free
onsite service when you register your [ticket](https://ep2025.europython.eu/tickets). If you have questions, please

> contact helpdesk@europython.eu .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
contact helpdesk@europython.eu.
```

- Childcare is on the **2nd floor** at **South Room 247 + 248**.
For full details, please visit the [childcare page](/childcare).

#### Feeding your child

There are **no restrictions on where you can breastfeed your child** – you are free and welcome
to feed your young ones at any place you feel comfortable.

Please note that only the conference venue (the Prague Congress Centre) has dedicated childcare rooms. If you prefer you can use these rooms to feed your child.  But – as stated above – you are not required to do so.

## Conference venue (Monday–Friday)
The Prague Congress Centre (PCC) is the main venue for EuroPython 2025.

### Parking at the PCC

![PCC parking map](./images/accessibility-parking-map.png)

Disabled parking is available at the PCC car park, please find this information
at https://www.praguecc.cz/en/parking-at-pcc .

### Inside The PCC

- The PCC is accessible for wheelchair users.
- Accessible toilet facilities are available.

#### Lift location
<Note>Escalators are located to the **right** after you enter the PCC through **Entrance 5**, and will bring you straight to the registration area on the first floor.</Note>

If you need to use the lifts:

> The lifts in the PCC are a bit hidden and not very well signposted. We would recommend you to contact us via helpdesk@europython.eu or on Discord if you need help finding them. We will be happy to pick you up and show you the way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lifts in the PCC are a bit hidden and not very well signposted. We recommend contacting us via helpdesk@europython.eu or on Discord if you need help finding them. We will be happy to pick you up and show you the way.
```
Less wordy is easier to ready.

If you want to get there on your own, here are the instructions:
1. Enter the PCC through **Entrance Number 5**.
1. Continue **straight**, passing the escalators and stairs.
1. Walk past the staff member and **through the first set of inner doors** in front of you.
1. On your **left** you will see doors hidden in the wall. Go **through these doors**, and you will find the lifts to your left. (The area looks and is a bit like a service area, but it is the right place to go.)

> 1. **Use one of the lifts** to go to the first or second floor. (Reception and tutorials are on the first floor, conference rooms and sponsors area  are on the second floor between Wednesday and Friday.)

Reviewer: It's a bit long for easy reading. Could we make it into bullets? 
```
1. **Use one of the lifts** to go to the first or second floor.
- First floor: Registration area and tutorials
- Second floor: Conference rooms and sponsors area (Wednesday–Friday)
```

Author: done.

1. Pass **through the next set of doors**, and you will see the **registration area to your left**.

#### Rooms
##### Registration / Cloak room (1st floor)

Registration will be located on the **1st floor**. To get there:

- Use **Entrance Number 5** on the ground floor of the PCC.
- Choose between the staircase to the left and the escalators to the right. Both lead up to the **1st floor**. Signage will show you the way.
- When you reach the **1st floor**, **Registration Desks** will be in front of the cloakroom in the Forum Hall Foyer.

![PCC first floor plan](./images/accessibility-ground-floor-map.png)

##### Toilets
- Accessible toilets are available on the **1st floor** and **2nd floor** in the main hallway. They are close to the stairs.
- Gender-neutral toilets are available on the **1st floor**.
- Additional toilets are on the **2nd floor** next to the entrance of the Open Space rooms and meeting rooms.

##### Tutorials - Club Rooms (1st floor)

![PCC first floor plan](./images/accessibility-first-floor-map.png)

##### Talks, Quiet Rooms and Childcare (2nd floor)

![PCC second floor plan](./images/accessibility-second-floor-map.png)

##### Quiet Room (Meeting 2.2)

> - If you need a quiet space to do some quiet work or just rest a bit, we got you. You can find the quiet room on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need a quiet space to do some quiet work or just rest a bit, we got you. You can find the quiet room on
```
It's a one-paragraph description. No need to make it into a bullet?

  the **2nd floor** at **Meeting Room 2.2** (power outlets are available).

The room is a bit out of the way. To find it, please follow these steps:
1. Go up to the **2nd floor**
1. Pass through the main sponsors area until you reach the top of the escalators going down.
1. **Turn left** and walk past the secondary entrance Forum Hall. (The terrace will now be behind you.)
1. Continue down approximately one third of the hallway.
1. You will see a door on your right with a sign saying **Meeting Room 2.2**. This is the quiet room.

Please be mindful of others in the room and keep noise to a minimum.

##### Low stimulation room (South room 243)

- If you feel overwhelmed and need a quiet space with no distractions, feel free to visit **South Room 243** on the **2nd floor**. To get there, look for the childcare room and continue through the hallway. It will be one of the doors to your left.
- The room is kept empty.
- In this room, you'll find a bag with sunglasses, eye masks, and earplugs for your convenience. Please return the sunglasses and eye masks after use. The earplugs are yours to keep.

> ## Speakers' dinner (Tuesday)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Speakers' Dinner (Tuesday)
```
to be consistent :)

### Access
- There is a lift to get from the pavement level down to the restaurant level.
- The restaurant is accessible for wheelchair users and people with limited mobility. But please note that the venue may get quite busy and crowded.

### Food
- We will provide a variety of food options, including vegetarian, vegan, and gluten-free choices. Please have a look at the [menu](/speakers-dinner#food-menu) for more details.

### Music / Noise
- The noise level at the restaurant can be high due to the amount of people. (Background music can be regulated by us.)
- The area at the terrace is quieter, but farther away from the food and drinks.

### Flashes and strobing effects
- We will not have any flashing lights or strobing effects at the Speakers' Dinner.

### Babies and children
- The restaurant is not equipped to accommodate young children and babies. (No nappies changing facilities, no high chairs, etc.)

## Social Event - Střelecký Island
The main [Social Event](/social-event/) will take place on the Střelecký Island.

Please have a look at the [accessibility information](/social-event/#accessibility-information) for the event.

> ## Sprints / Unconference Venue (Sat & Sun)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sprints / Unconference Venue (Saturday & Sunday)
```

  by signing attendees. If you have questions, please email us.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="What about hearing aid induction loops?" id="induction-loops">
 We do not have hearing aid induction loops at the conference. But all speakers are using microphones, and we live stream the talks (Wednesday-Friday) with audio, so you can listen to the talks from your own device. Unfortunately these streams do have a slight delay.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Any suggestions/tips as a volunteer MC or Session Chair?" id="volunteer-tips">

- Let folks know beforehand if there's loud, unexpected
  noises, strobing/flashing visuals in speakers' presentations,
  content and trigger warnings for any potentially sensitive material
- Be aware if someone requires designated space when they enter
  the room
- Able to assist and let folks know where lifts, accessible toilet facilities,
  childcare, and quiet rooms are.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Any tips for speakers" id="speakers-tips">
- Please be aware of the accessibility needs of your audience.
  - Please use large, clear fonts in your slides.
  - Please use high contrast colours in your slides.

>   - Please avoid using red-green colour combinations in your slides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Please minimise the use of red-green colour combinations in your slides.
```

>   - Please avoid using images with text in your slides

Reviewer: I am not sure if I understand why the advice is given. Do you mean people should type out text instead? Curious to see references for this.

Author: Yes. Text can always be made bigger, read with a reader if the slides are made available, ... . Pictures not so much.

Reviewer: nuked so resolving.

  - Some people don't react well to loud noises, flashing lights, or
     strobing effects. If you plan to use these effects, please give a warning beforehand.
- In all rooms except forum hall (the main room), try not to use the lower third of the slide

>   area, as this is not visible from the back of the room.

Reviewer: forum hall -> Forum Hall
But I really don't like the way it is here. Lower third is a graphical overlay that we talk about for producing videos. Speakers do not, and should not, have the knowledge. If you must put something there, I'd just say `please minimise the use of the very bottom part of your slides, as it may not be visible from the back of the room.`

But personally, I think this is better off in the speaker guide than here. I checked with Cristián for input.

Author: Was removed towards the extra speakers page.

> - Please stay close to the microphone when speaking, even if you are in a small room.

Reviewer: This is not relevant to accessibility. Let's try not to put these kind of specific AV related things here. Plus, we will have a huge problem if the speakers come in too hot (which we experienced before).

Author: It is related to accessibility. If AV can not pick up the sound from the speaker, people with hearing issues will have the same problem as the loudspeakers will not transmit.
Speakers coming in too hot are more difficult for AV than people being hard of hearing I'd wager. 
But the whole thing is gone from this PR now.

---
title: Accessibility at EuroPython
subtitle:
  Information about Accessibility at EuroPython as an attendee with maps of
  venues, childcare and other accessibility information.
---

# Accessibility at EuroPython

EuroPython strives to be welcoming, accessible and inclusive for all our
guests attending the conference.
If you have suggestions to improve accessibility, please let us know by contacting us at
[helpdesk@europython.eu](mailto:helpdesk@europython.eu).

## General

You're very welcome to ask about any accessibility needs. These may include, for example:

- Dietary requirements
- Childcare
- Lifts
- Designated seating
- Help finding your way around the venue
- Special rooms for quiet time
- Accessible toilet facilities
- Other needs that pop up during the conference
- ...

> Before the conference you can leave us a note while ordering your tickets or you can contact us via email at helpdesk@europython.eu.
> 
> During the conference visit our Info Desk at registration or look for our volunteers wearing a yellow conference t-shirt. You can also try to contact us via Discord using the "support" channel – when doing so please be patient though.
> 
> If you need help for things like designated seating, maintaining clear pathways, ... feel free to speak to the volunteer coordinating the session In the main talk rooms as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Before the conference**, you can leave us a note when ordering your tickets or contact us via email at helpdesk@europython.eu.

**During the conference**, you can visit our Info Desk at registration or speak with our volunteers wearing a yellow conference t-shirt. You can also reach out via the Discord using the "support" channel – please bear with us if takes a moment to respond

If you need help for things like designated seating, maintaining clear pathways, or anything else, feel free to speak to the volunteer coordinating the session in the talk rooms as well.
```
